---
layout: post
title: "Quicksilver vs. Spotlight"
date: 2009-04-14 10:18
---

The battle between these two softwares has been epic since [Nicholas
Jitkoff][] decided that apple just was not doing a very good job with
spotlight. The first Mac I ever purchased was an iBook G4.

After getting sucked into the Mac realm I learned about [Quicksilver][]
and how it was the “swiss-army knife” that all Mac users needed to have
and learn. I decided to use it and I would have to say it was by fair
one of the most amazing and useful applications I ever used on my iBook.
It allowed me to do so many things without having to click with my mouse
and open folders or web pages. Whenever I would show my non-Mac and Mac
friends what I could do with Quicksilver they wished they had something
on their computer that could accomplish even half of the things I could
do.

After a few years my iBook got old and I decided to purchase a MacBook
Pro. At the time when I purchased my new Mac apple had come out with
it’s hot new operating system OS X 10.5 code named Leopard. One of the
big new features was that they had completely revamped [Spotlight][].
When I heard this I was skeptical because Spotlight was not that great
on my iBook and unless they integrated Quicksilver I couldn’t see how
Spotlight could be any better. Surprisingly when I started using my new
MacBook Pro I really liked Spotlight and how it was so much faster and
finding exactly everything I needed and the new features that were
included into it. I did not download Quicksilver and thought I was
completely pleased with the new Spotlight. However, my Mac fanatic
friends questioned by I did not have Quicksilver and I tried to defend
my reasoning, but I realized that in actuality I wasn’t happy with
Spotlight instead I just accepted it. I realized that Spotlight did not
allow me to do even half the things Quicksilver did and I just accepted
the fact that I needed to open other applications and use the mouse to
navigate through different applications. All Spotlight really did was
allow me to search through my Mac for different documents and folders.
The best new feature was the [Quick Look][] feature that allowed a user
to look at documents without having to open an application. I still find
that feature amazingly useful.

In the end Quicksilver in my opinion is the best application to use
between the two. It allows you to do everything Spotlight does and more.
One concern I did have before was Quicksilver taking up too much RAM,
but it is minimal and therefore there is no reason for someone not to
use it. Given the learning curve is high in terms of really being able
to do everything Quicksilver allows you to do, but it’s worth spending
the time figuring everything out in the long run for avid Mac users.

  [Nicholas Jitkoff]: http://www.blacktree.com/
  [Quicksilver]: http://blacktree.com/?quicksilver
  [Spotlight]: http://www.apple.com/macosx/features/300.html#spotlight
  [Quick Look]: http://www.apple.com/macosx/features/quicklook.html
