---
layout: post
title: "Graduation"
date: 2009-05-29 14:58
---

So, I walked at my graduation commencement last week and it was an
interesting experience. Even though I will technically receive my
diploma in December I decided that I wanted to walk early so I could be
with my friends.

In a way I am glad I walked before I officially finished my
undergraduate career. It made me realize how much I still need to get
done before I enter into the real world. I have to learn little things
like keeping track of my personal finances and figuring out where I am
going to live and what I want to accomplish once I am done.

This summer I have been fortunate to start working on [Indinero][],
which has the potential of turning into a dream full time job that I
would do once I am done with college.

My goal these next few months are going to be to work hard so that I can
accomplish the goals I want to achieve come the end of college and make
sure I experience all that college life has to give me. There are so
many interesting things that go on at the Berkeley campus, but with all
the classes and organizations I am involved with I never had time to
attend them. This last semester I am going to make myself go to as many
of these things as possible because I believe it is important for all
students to go to these types of events because once you are done with
college these things are not so easily accessible to you. This last
March I got to attend a talk by The Dalai Lama and that was such an
insightful talk and I want to make sure I don’t ever miss anything like
that.

Therefore, my advise to incoming freshmen is that don’t get to sucked
into all the classes and organizations you join when you enter into
college. They will be great experiences, but if you want to learn more
about yourself and broaden your knowledge about the world you should
find time to attend things that really aren’t usual things you would go
to.

My advise to juniors and seniors is that make sure you know what you
want to do after college and keep yourself on the track that will lead
you to all those goals because it is really easy to go off track with
all the other things that you have to deal with like essays, tests, etc…

  [Indinero]: http://indinero.com/
