---
layout: post
title: "Sleep, Study, Social Life: Which do you choose?"
date: 2009-07-28 12:00
---

Which of the two do you choose? I was asked this question when I first
entered college. The realization was that you could only choose two of
the three activities. Therefore, you either had no sleep, horrible study
habits, or no social life. I thought that was the most absurd thing ever
when I first heard it. Managing all three would be a piece of cake and I
would be able to enjoy everything college had to offer me.

The fact is trying to place yourself in the middle of the triangle is
completely possible, but each end tries to manipulate and persuade you
into slowly coming closer to it. The more friends you make and
organizations you join means you will have more social events and
activities to be able to participate it. Some organizations might
require you to participate in a certain amount of activities throughout
the semester or year as well. The harder your courses get the more hours
you will have to spend studying for those courses. Also, if you are an
overly ambitious person you’ll be inclined to study more or take harder
classes to better yourself. Lastly, all of these activities are going to
eventually make you exhausted and tempting you to sleep more so you can
rejuvenate your body.

![Sleep, Studying, and Social Life Triangle][]

I realized that for me staying in the middle on a constant basis was
very difficult. My first two years of college I was on the side of sleep
and study because I was driven to transfer out of my current university.
Once I accomplished that goal I had to evaluate what I wanted out of my
last two years of college. I realized I wanted to obtain more of a
social life since I studied really hard my first two years. However, I
did not want to ruin my education after I worked so hard to get into the
university I wanted to be at. It is hard to always stay in the middle,
but it is not that difficult to move around the triangle if you have
some self discipline. I learned to use my calendar and to-do list to
manage my studying time making sure that when crunch time came I
wouldn’t be tempted by my friends asking me to hang out with them.
Likewise, my calendar allowed me to know when I did have the free time
to hang out or to catch up on some sleep.

It all comes down to how motivated you are to make sure you balance your
life. Realize there is some truth to when people tell you that you have
to choose two out of the three, but you have to ability to move around
willingly.

There are many ways you can help yourself in all three areas. In general
the [Getting Things Done][] method has helped me out a lot. The basic
principle is that you need to record your tasks externally so that you
free your mind from remembering everything that you need to get done. I
like to give myself three main task to accomplish each day and make sure
I get them done no matter what.

There are many methods and opinions on how to study effectively. People
will tell you to skim the book and just highlight the main concepts that
matter. Sometimes it is pointless to read the book and more important to
pay attention to the professor. In general my study habits include
putting on my headphones and listening to some classical music while I’m
studying in one of the libraries on campus. I would have to say that my
advise here would be to find the best situation that works for you and
make sure to always stick with it. If you know you work well at the
library force yourself to go there when you need to study. Here is a
good [simple guide][] on how to study effectively that includes some of
the things I highlighted and some other key advise.

When it comes to sleeping I have realized that when you are told you
need at least eight hours of sleep is not true at all. First of all
there are studies that are showing that [people who sleep eight hours die sooner than those who sleep less][]. Also, it all comes down to
making sure you stay in a constant habit and getting yourself to REM
sleep. If you really want to be able to balance studying, social life
and sleep an interesting new idea that a friend brought to my attention
is called [polyphasic sleeping][]. [There is The Siesta, The Everyman, and The Uberman][]. They are all very difficult to accomplish and many
people have tried. If you have the time and energy it will allow you to
have a lot more hours throughout the day to do all the things you want
with minimal amounts of sleep, but you’ll probably feel more refreshed
then people who sleep for hours.

The best advise for obtaining a social life is just start talking to
people and joining clubs and organizations that associate with the
activities and things you enjoy doing. Surrounding yourself with people
who enjoy the same things as you, but are also different while expand
your knowledge as well as allow you to have some fun. So, go out and
enjoy life just make sure you don’t get caught up in one area because
being able to balance everything is what will allow you to enjoy
everything you want.

  [Sleep, Studying, and Social Life Triangle]: http://farm4.static.flickr.com/3497/3767049247_84d2ab211b.jpg
  [Getting Things Done]: http://www.davidco.com/
  [simple guide]: http://www.wikihow.com/Study-for-a-Test
  [people who sleep eight hours die sooner than those who sleep less]: http://krishna.org/study-shows-people-who-sleep-8-hours-die-sooner-than-those-who-sleep-less/
  [polyphasic sleeping]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Polyphasic_sleep
  [There is The Siesta, The Everyman, and The Uberman]: http://dustincurtis.com/sleep.html
