---
layout: post
title: "UCI Research Project: Nomatic Aid"
date: 2009-09-15 19:59
---

A few summers ago I was privileged enough to get a fellowship to work on
a research project when I was attending University of California,
Irvine. Professor Patterson who was the professor overseeing my research
was a big help in me deciding that I really enjoyed the culture of
working in a startup because that is how he made the fellowship feel for
me. I was allowed to work for however long I wanted and during the times
that I felt were best for me. The only objective I had was to get to a
certain stage for the end of the summer presentation (after the jump). I
would have few meetings with him throughout the summer to show him my
progress, but other than that I was on my own. In the beginning it was
very overwhelming and scary because I had no idea where to begin, but
overtime it became easier and a lot of fun. I would work late hours on
my own free will just because I wanted to get to a certain point in the
my to-do list. It made me realize how most startups require you to work
late hours and have flexible schedules, which I enjoy a lot. Also, the
fact that even though it was Professor Patterson’s research project he
gave me the responsibility of doing it how I felt was best as long as
the project got done and did not have any bugs.

I admit my experience with research at a university might have been a
lot different than it normally is for most people, but I would highly
recommend anyone who thinks they want to work in a startup environment
to try and obtain a research opportunity. I feel that it is a safe and
secure environment for someone to test the waters of a startup
environment and see if they feel like it is for them.

Here is a brief summary of the research that I did and the video of my
presentation at the end of the fellowship:

Nomatic\*Aid consists of a hand-held geo-tagging photo device that
enables coordination between human relief workers during, as well as in
the weeks and months after, crises. For an effective crisis response,
spatial and temporal information about the resources (e.g. water, arable
land, vaccines) and displaced people has to be collected and collated by
the team of responders working on the field. The information garnered
needs to be disseminated and collated by a central server. Since a
network infrastructure may not be available after a crisis, the
hand-held devices are expected to form a mobile delay tolerant network.
Such a system uses the idea of parasitic data transport by encouraging
nodes to physically carry data for others when network connectivity is
not available.

This project intends to use camera cell phones equipped with a Global
Positioning System (GPS) to tag, store, and communicate “capsules” of
context-based data. The hand-held devices will serve both as data
collection and storage devices as well as communication nodes. Since the
devices have limited transmission range, unpredictable mobility, and
limited battery power, routing algorithms that exploit these unique
challenges will be designed.

<object id="revvervideoa17743d6aebf486ece24053f35e1aa23" classid="clsid:d27cdb6e-ae6d-11cf-96b8-444553540000" width="480" height="392" codebase="http://download.macromedia.com/pub/shockwave/cabs/flash/swflash.cab#version=6,0,40,0"><param name="Movie" value="http://flash.revver.com/player/1.0/player.swf?mediaId=504179"></param><param name="FlashVars" value="allowFullScreen=true"></param><param name="AllowFullScreen" value="true"></param><param name="AllowScriptAccess" value="always"></param><param name="src" value="http://flash.revver.com/player/1.0/player.swf?mediaId=504179"></param><param name="flashvars" value="allowFullScreen=true"></param><param name="allowfullscreen" value="true"></param><embed id="revvervideoa17743d6aebf486ece24053f35e1aa23" type="application/x-shockwave-flash" width="480" height="392" src="http://flash.revver.com/player/1.0/player.swf?mediaId=504179" allowscriptaccess="always" allowfullscreen="true" flashvars="allowFullScreen=true" movie="http://flash.revver.com/player/1.0/player.swf?mediaId=504179"></embed></object>
