---
layout: post
title: "Pirates of Silicon Valley 2.0"
date: 2010-09-29 16:59
---

The Social Network will debut this Friday. There has been a lot of hype
in the last few weeks about the movie. Zuckerberg had a big article with
the [New Yorker][] and Sean Parker did one with [Vanity Fair][]. Rotten
Tomatoes currently has the movie at a 100% rating and critics have
compared it to [Citizen Kane and The Godfather][].

Clearly this movie is already part of history before even being open to
the public. All this hype and drama filled around technology and Silicon
Valley really made me think about how the rest of the worlds’ view has
changed throughout the years of this place. Eleven years ago another
movie quite similar debut. It was called [Pirates of Silicon Valley][].
For those who have not heard of it the movie depicts the creation of the
two biggest technological empires (Apple and Microsoft) and the story
behind how they came to be. This movie went straight to television and
their were no lengthy articles about Steve Jobs or Bill Gates. I am sure
the world outside of Silicon Valley has no idea such a movie exists. I
would even bet some people who are part of the Silicon Valley culture
have no idea either.

I know that in the New Yorker article Zuckerberg talks about how he is
not going to go see the movie and that essentially he is very unhappy
about it. I am pretty sure neither Jobs or Gates were too happy about
Pirates of Silicon Valley either. From what I gathered Jobs is portrayed
as a crazy tyrant, however even he found a way to [accept the movie and
find a little humor in it][]. I hope I see Jesse Eisenberg opening the
next f8 conference.

I remember when I was first told about Pirates of Silicon Valley I was
shunned by my fellow engineers and aspiring entrepreneurs for not
already seeing it. Pirates of Silicon Valley was a right of passage for
these people. In their eyes you could not fully appreciate how amazing
the personal computer is and how difficult it is to start a company
unless you saw this movie. After watching it I would have to fully agree
with that view. The drama I am sure is a little over the top, but
probably accurate in some way. The depiction of how both Jobs and Gates
were as young driven innovators has to be as accurate as can be because
without them have those types of personalities they would not have
created the empires they have today and that is very important for any
aspiring entrepreneur to understand. I am definitely curious to see if
The Social Network will be able to leave such a lasting impression and
if it will allow future entrepreneurs to learn about how intense and
difficult it really is to start a company. It will be interesting to see
if it becomes the new right of passage.

Also, It is amusing how the da Vinci quote “Good artists create…great
artists steal” in the Pirates of Silicon Valley trailer can easily work
for The Social Network. I have not seen the movie yet, but if Aaron
Sorkin and David Fincher used that quote that would be amazing.

  [New Yorker]: http://www.newyorker.com/reporting/2010/09/20/100920fa_fact_vargas?currentPage=all
    "New Yorker article on Zuckerberg"
  [Vanity Fair]: http://www.vanityfair.com/culture/features/2010/10/sean-parker-201010
    "Vanity Fair article on Parker"
  [Citizen Kane and The Godfather]: http://twitter.com/#!/RottenTomatoes/status/25246232759
    "Rotten Tomatoes tweet"
  [Pirates of Silicon Valley]: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lEyrivrjAuU
    "Pirates of Silicon Valley Trailer"
  [accept the movie and find a little humor in it]: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TIClAanU7Os
    "Noah Wyle at MacWorld 1999"
